README.md, before:

# MCU-Driver-HAL

This repository contains the MCU-Driver HAL API, tests, documentation and example applications to demonstrate the usage of the HAL features.

This repository is referenced from Silicon Partners Drivers.

## License and contributions

The software is provided under the [Apache-2.0 license](LICENSE-apache-2.0.txt). All contributions to software and documents are licensed by contributors under the same license model as the software/document itself (ie. inbound == outbound licensing). MCU-Driver-HAL may reuse software already licensed under another license, provided the license is permissive in nature and compatible with Apache v2.0.

Folders containing files under different permissive license than Apache 2.0 are listed in the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file.

Specifications are licensed under the Creative Commons [CC-BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license (Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License).

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.

## HAL API documentation

See the [HAL API Doxygen documentation](https://mcu-driver-hal.github.io/MCU-Driver-HAL).

## Porting guide

See the [HAL porting guide](docs/porting/PORTING.md) for help with supporting new targets.

Commit message:

Added a getting started doc
Added a little more detail to the compilers section

Update docs/getting_started/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

Update docs/getting_started/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

Update docs/getting_started/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

made more changes to docs and moved getting started

Update docs/user/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

Update docs/user/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

Update docs/user/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

Update docs/user/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

Update docs/user/README.md

Co-authored-by: Marcelo Salazar <marcelo.salazar@arm.com>

updated readme

updated readme

Signed-off-by: James Campbell <james.barlonachan@hotmail.co.uk>

README.md, after:

# MCU-Driver-HAL

This repository contains the MCU-Driver HAL API, tests, documentation and example applications to demonstrate the usage of the HAL features.

This repository is referenced from Silicon Partners Drivers.

## Getting started

Check out the [getting started guide](./docs/user/README.md) or [the docs](./docs/README.md).

## License and contributions

The software is provided under the [Apache-2.0 license](LICENSE-apache-2.0.txt). All contributions to software and documents are licensed by contributors under the same license model as the software/document itself (ie. inbound == outbound licensing). MCU-Driver-HAL may reuse software already licensed under another license, provided the license is permissive in nature and compatible with Apache v2.0.

Folders containing files under different permissive license than Apache 2.0 are listed in the [LICENSE](LICENSE.md) file.

Specifications are licensed under the Creative Commons [CC-BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/) license (Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International Public License).

Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information.
